Add notes from 2022-06 (#54)
python/docs-community: docs/monthly-meeting/2022-06.md

# Documentation Community Team Meeting (June 2022)

- **Date:** 2022-06-06

> - **Time:** [21:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-04-04/21:00/Docs%20Meeting)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Time:** [21:00 UTC](https://arewemeetingyet.com/UTC/2022-06-06/21:00/Docs%20Meeting)
```

By participating in this meeting, you are agreeing to abide by and uphold the [PSF Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/codeofconduct/).
Please take a second to read through it!

## Roll call

- name / `@github-username`
- Adam Turner / `@AA-Turner`
- Guido van Rossum / `@gvanrossum`
- Petr Viktorin / `@encukou`
- Pradyun Gedam / `@pradyunsg`
- Ezio Melotti / `@ezio-melotti`
- CAM Gerlach / `@CAM-Gerlach`
- Mariatta / `@mariatta`
- Ned Batchelder / `@nedbat`
- Hugo van Kemenade / `@hugovk`
- Mats Wichmann / `@mwichmann`
- John P. Rouillard / `@rouilj`
- Daniele Procida / `@evildmp`

## Quick updates - Introductions

> 60 second updates on things you have been up to, questions you have, or developments you think people should know about. Please add yourself, and if you do not have an update to share, you can pass.

- Daniele is the author of Diátaxis.

## Reports and celebrations

> This is a place to make announcements (without a need for discussion). This is also a great place to give shout-outs to contributors! We'll read through these at the beginning of the meeting.

- CPython triage permissions for CAM, Pradyun, Adam, and Ned.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Agenda items

### Past Action Items

- [ ] Carol (and CAM?) will be updating the readme and guide at the sprints.

Update: CAM didn't see any reviews or feedback on his PRs. (He did take some time off from Python work.)

- [ ] Creating a 'docs-approved' (wording to be agreed) label for CPython.

Needs discussion, please open issue on core-workflow repo.

> (There's a template for label changes: https://github.com/python/core-workflow/issues/new/choose)

Author: I've checked it in Past Action Items in the new agenda.

### 'Internal' items

*For and about the Community or Working Group*

#### Docs WG renaming to Editorial Board

> If we rename the WG to an Editorial Board, we should clarify the interpretation of the name.
>
> A quarterly meeting for the WG seems like the right cadence.
> 
> Editorial Board is the agreed name. Wikipedia has a good definition which aligns with our meaning.

> Status: There is currently no ceremony/meetings for the work group/editorial board, to meet and make progress on this.

Reviewer: Removed "to meet and make progress on this" as I'm not sure anyone suggested the EB having a meeting.
```suggestion
Status: There are currently no meetings for the editorial board.
```

> - [ ] Petr: Do the rename in all the docs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Petr: Do the rename of "working group/WG" to "Editorial Board" in all the docs
```

Ned: There's agreement about *that* we should use Diataxis, but not about *how* we should implement it.

- [ ] Petr: Solicit agenda items on Discourse, for the next/future meetings

### Python Project Documentation

*Relating to `docs.python.org`, `peps.python.org`, `devguide.python.org`, &c.*

#### Proofreaders GitHub team

It would be useful to have a GitHub team that can be `@mentioned` in docs PRs to request reviews of the English grammar.

- [ ] Petr: Create a `proofreaders` team (Initially: CAM, Adam, Pradyun, Hugo), post about this team on Discourse (or similar) for a wider audience

#### Devguide improvement plans

Ezio made some comments in [a thread](https://discord.com/channels/935215565872693329/980818577559007242):

> The first plan is to overhaul a bit the GitHub docs, and is also related to other changes about labels.
The second plan is still somewhat half-baked, but I wanted to
> 1. add some instructions about following the development of CPython

Ezio: Add a changelog page to the devguide for an overview of workflow changes

> - [ ] Ezio: Add a “what's new” section to the devguide (key/important changes)

Reviewer 2: I created https://github.com/python/devguide/issues/885

Author: I've checked it in Past Action Items in the new agenda.

CAM: Two different types of content: new pages on tools and workflow versus changes to existing policies and proceduces.

Guido: Not that useful to distinguish these, as it adds more categories. Everything is new.

Ned: Is a problem that we have different audiences? E.g. triagers versus developers versus contributors to Python

> Guido: (core devs & triagers), contributors, redistributors/people who need to build Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Guido: The three audiences should be (core devs & triagers), contributors, and redistributors/people who need to build Python.
```

> 2. add a "tips and tricks" page
> There is some overlapping between https://devguide.python.org/communication/, the instructions that I want to add, the tips and tricks page, and other pages like the GitHub bootcamp though, so I'm still trying to figure out all the things I want to include and then what would be the best way to organize them.

Ned: This sounds like Ezio is suggestion that the devguide should have a 'how to' section (one of the four sections of Diataxis).

> - [ ] Ezio: Add a (How-To) Guides section with these

Reviewer 2: I will create an issue/project later.  I still need more time to think what would be the best way to approach this.

#### Adopting Diátaxis

https://discuss.python.org/t/adopting-the-diataxis-framework-for-python-documentation/15072

What's the next step -- survey what we already have, as [Ezio suggested](https://discuss.python.org/t/adopting-the-diataxis-framework-for-python-documentation/15072/37)?

Daniele: We should consider not only consensus on adopting the framework, but also understanding what it's about, and how it could be implement it. Best way to do it would be a couple of workshops.

Ned: What's a workshop?

Daniele: Two 2-hour interactive workshops: theory, interactive exercises, 
Normally it's in-person.

Ned: Who'd participate?

Daniele: Up to 30 people. Happy to do it for people who wouldn't be working on Python itself. Often do it at conferences.

> Adam: should it be people in this call? Core devs?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adam: Who should be in the workshops? Core devs? This group? Docs contributors?
```

Daniele: People who are pushing this thru, presenting to others. But skills should be spread far. Need enough people to make it sustainable.

> We can probably get more people for a workshop that on this meeting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can probably get more people for a workshop than on this meeting.
```

- [ ] Mariatta: to work with Daniele to organize the workshop, CAM & Ned to help with logistics.

#### Workflow

(not discussed due to time)

Should we apply the `skip news` label to documentation PRs? [Discussion in Bedevere's tracker](https://github.com/python/bedevere/issues/457).

> Speeding up the `Docs / Docs` CI job -- pros and cons.

Reviewer: This is now https://github.com/python/core-workflow/issues/459

A
